---
layout: page
title: "Contributor License Agreement"
description: ""
---
{% include JB/setup %}


A Contributor Licence Agreement (CLA) is strongly recommended when accepting third party contributions to an open development project, such as an open source software project. In order to redistribute contributions, it is necessary to ensure that the project has the necessary rights to do so. A Contributor Licence Agreement is a lightweight agreement, signed by the copyright holder, that grants the necessary rights for the contribution to be redistributed as part of the project.

Contributor Licence Agreements also simplify the process of collaborating with partners on projects as they can form part of a broader collaboration agreement. Such agreements define ownership of copyright in works produced in collaboration and, furthermore, they describe any licensing of specific copyright in materials generated by the project.

### Who must sign the CLA's

The OCA desires that all contributors of ideas, code, or documentation to the OCA's projects complete, sign, and submit (via email) an Individual Contributor License Agreement (ICLA) [PDF form](Odoo Community Association-Individual.pdf). The purpose of this agreement is to clearly define the terms under which intellectual property has been contributed to the OCA and thereby allow us to defend the project should there be a legal dispute regarding the software at some future time. A signed CLA is required to be on file for every delegate member and before an individual is given commit rights to an OCA project.

For a corporation that has assigned employees to work on an OCA project, an Entity CLA (or Corporate : CCLA) [PDF form](Odoo Community Association-Entity.pdf) is available for contributing intellectual property via the corporation, that may have been assigned as part of an employment agreement. Note that an Entity CLA does not remove the need for every developer to sign their own CLA as an individual, to cover any of their contributions which are not owned by the corporation signing the Entity CLA.

CLAs may be submitted by emailing a scan of the signed copy to oca-board@lists.launchpad.net . Fill out and scan the pdf document and send it to secretary.

The ICLA is not tied to any employer you may have, so it is recommended to use one's personal email address in the contact details, rather than an @work address.

Your Full name will be published. The email address and other contact details are not published.

### Find our Individual and Entity CLA's

+ [Download](Odoo Community Association-Individual.pdf) the individual CLA
+ [Download](Odoo Community Association-Entity.pdf) the entity CLA

Send it to oca-board AT lists.launchpad.net
